---
layout: page
title: History
tagline: how these meetings came into being
weight: 4
---



The Gaussian process summer schools have emerged from a long history of
organization of Gaussian process meetings by the Sheffield group. These
include the [Gaussian Process Round Table](../gprt/) and the [Gaussian
Processes in Practice](../gpip/) workshops.

The Gaussian Process Round Table was a small meeting of Gaussian process
researchers from around Europe that focussed on what the advantages and
limitations of Gaussian process models were. Much of the discussion at
the meeting on sparse Gaussian process models was summarized by the
Quinonero Candela and Rasmussen paper on ["A Unifying Review of Sparse
Approximate Gaussian Process
Regression"](http://www.jmlr.org/papers/volume6/quinonero-candela05a/quinonero-candela05a.pdf).
Carl Rasmussen and Chris Williams also used the opportunity to get
together and finalize their draft of the book [Gaussian Processes for
Machine Learning](http://www.gaussianprocess.org/gpml/).

[The Gaussian Processes in Practice](../gpip/) meeting was organised to
bring Gaussian processes to a wider audience. It was [recorded for Video
Lectures](http://videolectures.net/gpip06_bletchley_park/) and the
[introductory talk](http://videolectures.net/gpip06_mackay_gpb/) given
by David MacKay has had over 30,000 views on the site. By this time the
Rasmussen and Williams book was published. This explained these models
to a wider audience enabling more widespread adoption of these
approaches.

The Gaussian Process Summer Schools now continue in the tradition of
explaining these powerful approaches to probabilistic inference to a
wider audience. The first school was run in June 2013. As well as
hosting schools locally in Sheffield we also conduct Gaussian Process
Road Shows: reduced versions of the school that can be brought on site
to a given University or Company to provide a short course on Gaussian
Process models.

